Remembering My Teacher Charlie Munger 
Li Lu 
Thursday, November 30, 2023 
 
I was on a business trip in Asia on Tuesday when I got the call from the Munger family 
informing me that Charlie was in his ﬁnal hours. I hopped onto the next ﬂight I could ﬁnd to 
California, and before departure, was able to talk to Charlie through the help of his daughter. 
Charlie had largely lost consciousness, but sƟll I could clearly hear him trying to make a sound 
to acknowledge he had heard me. Upon landing, I learned that Charlie had leŌ us a few hours 
earlier.  
 
I arrived at his Santa Barbara home and had the opportunity to spend cherished Ɵme with 
family members, reminiscing about all things Charlie. Charlie was engaging, humorous and full 
of wit even at Thanksgiving dinner just a few days ago, family members told me. I visited his 
home library again. In that very room, exactly 20 years ago, also on a post-Thanksgiving 
weekend aŌernoon, following the introducƟon by our mutual friend Ron Olson, Charlie and I 
ﬁrst struck up a deep conversaƟon which ran for several hours. It began an investment 
partnership that has now endured two decades. Charlie became my mentor, partner, dear 
friend and above all, life-long role model. 
 
I was so deeply grateful that the Munger family made a special arrangement the next day for 
me to say a proper and private goodbye to Charlie.  
 
There, lying quietly with eyes closed, Charlie looked the same as ever, peaceful and sincere with 
a subtle smile on his face. There was a serenity about him. For a moment, I was reminded of the 
Living Buddhas I once saw in the Buddhist temples of Thailand. In the Buddhist tradiƟon, the 
bodies of truly enlightened monks, through life-long self-culƟvaƟon, can remain incorrupt, 
without any traces of mummiﬁcaƟon aŌer death. In that moment, it is what I saw in Charlie, an 
enlightened sage with an incorrupƟble body, surrounded by a glimmer of eternal light.  
 
Charlie was not a Buddhist. That vision can never be tested. But it is incontroverƟble that his 
legacy and impact will live on for generaƟons to come. 
 
In our capitalist society, where do virtue, moral responsibility, truth-seeking and public service 
ﬁt in? Charlie Munger answered these quesƟons through his long exemplary life. He insisted on 
making money in the most morally sound way, entering transacƟons only when, if posiƟons 
were reversed, he would comfortably take the other side. He sought worldly wisdom through 
life-long learning. He guided life with raƟonality devoid of mental deﬁciencies such as envy, 
resentment and self-pity. He faced and persevered through countless adversiƟes with stoicism 
and equanimity. As he gained in wealth and stature, he showed litle appeƟte for the trappings 
of that success, and instead spent his wealth on worthy causes and Ɵrelessly spread his worldly 
wisdom to those who would listen, oŌen with humor. He remained deeply engaged with family, 
friends, partners and the broader world with loving assiduousness through his last days.   
 
In his later decades, Charlie Munger’s ideas began to spread across the world, parƟcularly in the 
most populous countries of China and India. In China, the Mandarin language version of “Poor 
Charlie’s Almanack,” an anthology by and about Charlie Munger, sold over 1.2 million copies 
over the last 10 years. There, the educated class increasingly came to view Charlie as the 
embodiment of the modern-day Confucianism, maintaining a virtuous and enlightened life 
while embracing the market forces of capitalism. In Ɵme, that vision of modern Confucianism 
will be crucial for Chinese modernizaƟon and how China interacts with the rest of the world. 
 
Charlie’s teachings will conƟnue to spread, inspire and impact the world even more profoundly. 
That will be his eternal legacy.     
 
 
